Chapter 1,
We are saved through God and not by sin. You will be glorified forever and ever. Dont change up the gospel or distort it. Be accured if pastors or angels or others should change it up. So who is the one you are seeking? God or man? If it was man, you would not be a servant of christ. Paul wants us to know that the gospel preached by paul is not man's but Gods. They started florifing God through Paul's messages, because the knew that he was hurting the gospel and not helping, but then he started to help and they Glorified God through that change.
Side note:
Apostles are Christ's Representive

Chapter 2,
The apostles accept paul and he is talking about how you dont have to be circumsied to be able to go to christ. It's not by works but by faith. paul says that he would rebuild what he tore down. Then he says, He lived by the law and died to the law, and if you live by the law and not by Jesus, then you would die without Jesus. He left the law, so he could live in Christ.

Chapter 3,
Paul wants to know why they are following false teachers and tells them how to get out of it. You are saved by faith and not by false teachers. People who rely on the law are under a curse and it was written down, No one is justified above God. The law is not faith. Christ redeams us from the law by being cursed and it gave us the spirit through faith. We are all one through Christ.

Chapter 4,
Paul is concerned fot the galations, talks about slaves, It says in verse 29-31, he who is slave/flesh is to pusecute those in the spirit. Cast out the slave woman and her son, slaves shall not inherit those of the free son. Refers to false teachers in verse 4:17.

Chapter 5,
Christ has set us free, not the law or circumcision. QUESTION ON VERSE 13-15- What does that mean? He wants us to walk with christ and to those who desire the flesh are against those of the spirit, and vise versa. If you are led by the spirit you are not under the law. Verse 19-21 tells you what the flesh wants. Lets try not to hurt others or be conceited. If we live by the spirit let us keep step with the spirit. 
Verse 13-15:
13 For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. 14 For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” 15 But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another.

Verse 19-21:
19 Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, 20 idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, 21 envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.